서베이 항목
영화보기
해변가기
공원가기
게임하기
캠핑가기
음악감상하기
조깅
걷기
운동을전혀하지않음
국내여행
집에서보내는휴가
해외여행

these days : 요즘은
during the (season) : season 동안, season 에
fine dust : 미세먼지
blizard : 눈보라
whenever (i go there): (거기 갈때마다)할때마다
from what i know : 내가 아는한
what i think is that : 내가 생각하는건
that sort of thing : 그런거
what im trying to say is that : 내가 말하려는건


during the summer, the weather is very hot in my contry.
during the rainy season, i check the weather forecast everyday.

모의고사1

1. interview yourself
yeah.. hi.. i'm ez-kim.
this is my third time taking this test. maybe ?
so ,, i think this one feels more comfortable than the last one, but not quite yet.
but .. i can do it

2. what kind of transportation do people use ?
“umm.. actually, I don’t usually use many types of transportation.
you know, most of the time, they’re usually crowded and noisy, and I don’t really like that atmosphere.
so honestly, I don’t really know much about that.
but I know a little.
I think most people in my country use Incheon Airport when they go abroad.”

3. around에 갈때 어떤 transportation을 타고 다니냐 ?
“umm, you know, I already said in my last answer.
I don’t usually use many types of transportation.
but sometimes I take the bus at a bus stop near my house.
and speaking of public transportation, I don’t really like using it.
because, most of the time, it’s crowded and really noisy, so that's why i don't like it”

4. bus stop이나 trail은 uncomfortable하다. transportation 탈때 problem들 뭐시기,,
“yeah, it has many problems.
most of the time, public transportation is really noisy and crowded.
during the last rainy season, I sometimes took the bus at a bus stop near my house to go to work.
but it was always crowded and humid inside.
and naturally, there were no empty seats.
so I had to stand the whole time(way), and it was really uncomfortable.”

5. 니 집에 대해서 설명해달라, 뭐같냐, 그리고 좋아하는 방이 뭐냐 ?
“umm, actually, my house is a studio apartment.
it’s small, but I really like it because it’s really cozy.
I really like that cozy feeling because it makes me feel comfortable.
and by the way, It looks like a mini music studio,
because I have a big monitor, a TV, and a high-end computer in there.
so it’s a combination of all my favorite things.”

6. 집에서 activity 뭐하냐 ? weekend에는 뭐하고 weekkday에는 뭐해 ?
“when I’m at home, I normally spend time playing computer games or doing some coding.
both on weekdays and weekends.
the kind of computer games I play are Role-Playing games and FPS games.
and I also enjoy making personal servers using programming languages
like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and Python.
it’s difficult, but it’s really fun.”

7. tell me about the house you live in when you were a child. how is it different from the house you live in now?
“well, when I was a child, I lived in my grandparents’ house in Pyeongchang, Gangwon-do.
the house had a black tile roof called giwa.
Do you know giwa?
it’s a traditional Korean roof, and I liked it because it looked really cool.
anyway.. but now, my house doesn’t have a roof like that, just a rooftop.
I’m not sure it’s that cool.
so it feels very different from the house I lived in before.
that’s all.”

8. 국내여행 즐긴다고 했다. 좋아하는 장소는 ? 왜 좋아함 ?
“my favorite place to travel is Danyang in Chungcheong-do.
actually, when I was a middle school student, I lived there.
so whenever I go there, I feel like I’m a kid again.
and a lot of my friends still live there,
so I always enjoy catching up with them when I visit.
it’s always fun, and that’s why I really like the place.”

9. 어렸을때 갔던 여행에 대해서 알려줘
“when I was young, I enjoyed going on small trips around Danyang.
because, I lived there, and I didn’t have much money,
so I couldn’t travel far.
I usually went to the river or the mountains in Danyang with my friends.
there were a lot of beautiful places there.
I went there recently, and those places were still beautiful.
that’s why I still really like Danyang.”

10. 니 나라의 여행 갈때 흥미로웠던 경험 있냐 ?
“maybe about two years ago, in the summer, I went to Jebudo with my girlfriend.
we walked around and hung out together.
and then we saw it, the sunset.
the sunset in Jebudo was really wonderful.
I’ll never forget the sunset that day.
my girlfriend said the same thing, too.
I swear it was a very memorable day for both of us.”

11. prepare the birhday party. 3~4개 질문
“ring-ring
hi, this is ez-kim. hey buddy, what's going on?
oh, a birthday party? what's the problem?
okay, I got you! I’ll help you.
but before that, I want to ask you a few questions.

first, when is your birthday?
oh, sorry, I forgot, but I’ll give you a present you can’t even imagine.

anyway, when is your birthday?
okay, I see. and where is your birthday party?

and lastly, how many people are coming?

alright, got it.
then get ready for your birthday party!”

12. prepare the birthday part 못 가는 이유 
ring-ring
Hi, it's EZ-kim. Oh my friend.
Listen… I’m really sorry.
Actually, I was supposed to go to your house, but I can’t make it.
Sorry, sorry, really sorry.

I was on my way to your house, but my car just broke down!
And there’s no bus or taxi here at all!
I’m really sorry.

But instead, I called another friend, and he’ll be there soon.
He’s Myungbin, you know him, right?
He’ll help you !

And I’ll give you a present that you can’t even imagine!
Sorry, sorry, really sorry.
don’t be upset, my friend.

13. cancle situation.
Umm… a cancel situation…
Yes, I’ve had a situation where I had to cancel.
Well, last year, in the summer,
I was supposed to go to an EDM festival in Seoul with my girlfriend,
but I couldn’t go.

Because I got sick — I got COVID,
so I had to stay home and rest.
So I told her I couldn’t go,
and I was really sorry for her.

But she went there alone without me.
And after she got back, she told me it was amazing.

Anyway… it was a good thing, right?


모의고사2

2. 비치 자주 간다며 좋아하는 비치
Yes, I like going to the beach.
My favorite beach is Pohang.
Do you know Pohang?

Pohang is really famous for crabs.
There’s a big crab statue on the beach in Pohang — it looks really funny!

And this is no joke — everywhere you go there, you can see crab stuff.
Like restaurants that serve crabs, and crab miniatures… that sort of thing.

Anyway, it looks like a crab’s heaven.
I often go to the beach when I want to recharge and relax —
about four times a year.

3. 비치에 갈때, 누구랑 가고, act는 뭐함 ?
Well, like I said in my last answer,
I often go to the beach when I want to recharge.

When I go to the beach, I usually enjoy eating something —
like eating seafood or drinking beer.
I really love seafood.

And I usually go there with my girlfriend.
She really loves the beach and seafood, too.

So when I go to the beach with my girlfriend,
it’s a death day for seafood.

4. 비치에 갔던 여행 중 기억에 남는 여행 ?
“maybe about two years ago, in the summer, I went to Jebudo with my girlfriend.
when we got there, we walked around and hung out together.
and then we saw it, the sunset.
the sunset in Jebudo was really wonderful.
really fantastic.
I’ll never forget the sunset that day.
my girlfriend said the same thing, too.
I swear it was a very memorable day for both of us.”

5. 좋아하는 영화 타입
I love classic movies.
You know, I think most of the classic movies I’ve watched were masterpieces.
Like Scent of a Woman — do you know it?

It’s one of my favorite movies.
There’s a really great scene where Al Pacino dances the tango with a woman.
I really love that scene.

And I really love the feeling of discovering masterpieces.
That’s why I love classic movies.

6. 좋아하는 액터 혹은 액트리스, 그리고 그들의 최근 뉴스 ?
Umm… I said I love classic movies,
so most of my favorite actors or actresses are already dead.
So I don’t really know much about their recent news.

Actually, I usually love movies, not actors.
But one actress I know is Anne Hathaway.
I heard she had a baby recently and she’s doing well.

7. 마지막으로 영화관 갔던 때에 대해서 말해라
Maybe last summer, I went to a theater called Megabox.
I watched an animated movie with my girlfriend.
The title of the movie was Chainsaw Man.
It was my girlfriend’s pick.

Anyway, I enjoyed eating popcorn more than watching the movie.
I’m a big fan of Megabox popcorn.

After I watched the movie and got back home,
I seriously regretted not buying extra popcorn.

8. 니네 나라 호텔에 대해서 말해줘라
There are so many hotels in my country —
from luxury hotels to small inns.

Actually, I don’t know much about them,
because I think hotels are just places to sleep.

But my girlfriend really loves luxury hotels,
so I sometimes go to luxury hotels with her.
So I know a little about them.

Most of the luxury hotels are located in Seoul.
And also, they usually have a big swimming pool, a spa, and a comfortable bed.

And my favorite thing among them is the comfortable bed.

9. 호텔 갔을때 말해주셈
Last summer, I went to the Paradise Hotel in Busan.
There were two big swimming pools, a spa, and a really nice room.

And the highlight was a restaurant with really delicious food.

There was also a casino, but Koreans couldn’t enter it.
Only foreigners could go inside.

I really wanted to check out the casino,
so it was a bit disappointing.

10. 가장 기억에 남는 머물렀던 호텔에 대해서 말해달라.
Well, about 2 years ago, I went to Phu Quoc and stayed at a really nice hotel near the beach with my girlfriend.
The name of the hotel was the InterContinental Hotel in Phu Quoc.

There was a big swimming pool, good restaurants, and large rooms.
The most memorable thing was the swimming pool right next to the beach.

because, the view from the pool was really amazing.
I just lay down on a sunbed in the pool and looked at the ocean.
It felt so relaxed.

It was one of the most peaceful moments in my life.

11. 닥터 예약 잡으려고 하는데 전화해서 3~4개 질문해라
ring-ring
Hello, is this the hospital?
I’d like to make a doctor’s appointment.

Hmm… I think I got COVID.
So, do you have any time this afternoon?

At 3 p.m.?
Okay. Do I need to bring anything?
Like my health insurance card?

Oh, I see. These days, only an ID card is needed.
Okay, thank you for your help.

12. 근데 일이 생겨서 못감 다시 리스케줄 및 전화
Hello.
Is this the hospital?

Actually, I made a doctor’s appointment a few hours ago,
but unfortunately, I can’t go there at 3 p.m.

Because I was on my way to your hospital,
but my car just broke down.
I’m so sorry…

Yes, I’m fine. Thank you for your concern.

So, could I reschedule my appointment?
I can go there around 5 p.m.
Is that okay?

Okay, thank you.
See you at 5 p.m.

13. 약속 취소한 경험 말해라.
Umm… a cancel situation…
Yes, I’ve had a situation where I had to cancel.
Well, last year, in the summer,
I was supposed to go to an EDM festival in Seoul with my girlfriend,
but I couldn’t go.

Because I got sick — I got COVID,
so I had to stay home and rest.
So I told her I couldn’t go,

But she told me, it was ok.
after that, she went there alone without me.
And after she got back, she told me it was so amazing.

Anyway… it was a good thing, right?

14. 인터넷 쓸때 보통 뭐함 ? 어디 접속함 ?
when i use the internet, i usually search for coding solutions.
because, i enjoy making personal servers using programming languages.
so a lot of problems happen when i code.
thats why i usually search for them.
anyway, i often visit github or reddit to look for solutions.
but sometimes i check the official websites of programming languages i use.


15. 나도 인터넷 씀, 나한테 질문해보셈 어디 방문하는지 그런거.
Yo Ava, do you also use the internet?
Well, of course. I mean, who doesn’t use the internet these days, right?
Then, I want to ask you a few questions. Is that okay?
So, where do you usually go online?
Oh my god… DC Inside? Really?
That site has so many aggressive posts, right?
Wow, I’m surprised.
So, what do you do on that website?
Have you ever posted something there?
Okay. I believe you.

모의고사3

2. 니 나라의 포퓰러 푸드, 왜 유명함?
You know, the food in my country is really getting popular these days.
I think it’s because of K-pop or K-dramas.
For example, kimchi and samgyeopsal are really famous.
Well, forget about kimchi. Let me tell you about samgyeopsal.
it's called Korean BBQ in other countries.
It’s seriously gotten popular these days.
I think foreigners started to enjoy the taste of it.
I think it’s really delicious.
So, have you ever eaten samgyeopsal?

3. 보통 뭐 먹냐 ?
Well, I usually eat Korean food.
But I really love meat, so I often eat dishes with meat.
Like samgyeopsal or duck.
I eat them about four times a week.
Yeah, I know, it’s too much.
But I just can’t stop, because meals without protein are hard for me.
How about you?
What kind of food do you like?

4. 먹을때 메모러블한 경험
Yes, I’ve had a memorable food experience.
Well, I used to not like Chinese food, but now I like some of it.
Because about two years ago, my girlfriend really wanted to eat malatang or malahuoguo with me.
I really didn’t like it, but I loved her, so I had no choice but to go.
So we went there and ate malahuoguo together.
It was my first time trying it.
The name of the restaurant was Haidilao.
Anyway, the taste was actually good.
I didn’t like it before, but when I tried it, it was a good experience.
So it was pretty memorable for me.

5. 
Well, most people in my country recycle really well.
Actually, I think the countries that really need recycling are America, India, China, and some other countries.
They usually don’t recycle like my country.
Anyway, in my country, people separate all kinds of trash,
like plastic and vinyl.
Then recycling companies take them and do something with them,
like using them in thermal power plants or something like that.
That’s all.

6. 니가 재활용하는 단계 전부 말하셈.
Well, I just separate some kinds of trash, like plastic, vinyl, and paper.
And I put them in front of my house every day.
Then the building manager separates them again and puts them somewhere.
After that, a garbage truck comes and takes them away.
So basically, I just separate them and throw them away.
That’s all.

7. 재활용하는데 메모러블한 경험
Well, it’s a really difficult question.
Honestly, who would remember anything special about recycling?
Unfortunately, nothing comes to my mind.
But I’ve seen someone who recycled in a unique way.
I was watching YouTube Shorts when something caught my eye.
He made a shower head using an empty plastic bottle.
It was funny and surprising.

8. 어떤 종류의 음악을 좋아하냐, 좋아하는 가수나 작곡가
i really love alternative rock.
my favorite musician is 커트 코베인 from the band 너바나.
do you know 너바나?
they were a really legendary rock band.
but unfortunately, 커트코베인 took his own life because of drug addiction when he was twenty seven years old.
and i also love 텐타시온, too.
he was rapper in america.
but he was shot to death.
he was only twenty years old.
i think the musicians i love always die young.

9. 어렸을때 뮤직 좋아하던 취향이랑 뭐 지금 달라진거
well .. when i was a child, i just listend to any kind of music.
like pop-songs.
i swear, i didnt have music taste.
but about 5 years ago, i started playing electric guitar.
so i always listend to rock to practice the electric guitar.
and naturally, rock became my music taste.

10. 라이브 뮤직 들을때 메모러블한 경험 ?
about 2 years ago, i went to an EDM festival in Seoul with my girlfriend.
because, my girlfriend really wanted to go there with me.
i wasn't really interested in EDM music.
i didn’t really want to go there, but i loved her, so i had no chice but to go.
but honestly, once i got there, it was really exciting.
it was my first time going to a big concert.
the powerful speakers and full sound hit my chest.
it was really an amazing experience.

11. 1주동안 넌 차를 빌려야됨 렌트차 회사에 전화해서 3~4개 질문
ring-ring.
hello, is this the car rental company ?
oh, i'd like to rent a car..
do you have a sedan ?
oh, its good.
how much is it per day ?
aha ok, i see.
then,, how can i rent a car ?

12. 차 빌렸는데 문제 생김, 전화해서 2~3개 해결책
ring-ring.
hello, this is ez-kim, i rented a car from your company 2 days ago.
but there's a problem.
someone hit my car.
so i need your help.
can you tell me what i should do ?
aha i got it, i'll be wating for you.

13. 차 빌려본 적 있냐 ? 왜 빌림 ?
yeah i've rented a car.
about 2 years ago, i went to 제주도 with my girlfriend.
we wantted to travel comfortably.
so we decided to rent a car.
the process was simple.
we just showed our driver's license and paid by credit card.
after that, during the trip, we drove around the island and visited many places.
it was comfortable.

14. 공원 자주간다며 설명좀
i often go to a park near my house.
the name of the park is 센트럴 파크 in 동탄.
siriously, there's notthig speical.
just there are some places for excercise and walking.
it just a normal park.
but it's quite big, so many people come here.
i really dont like crowded places, so i'm still on the fence about changing the park i go to.

15. 나도 공원 가는거 좋아함 3~4개 질문
oh do you like going to the park?
Seriously ?
well, where is the park you often go to ?
how do you like to spend time in the park ?
riding a skateboard?
wow, that's awesome !
next time, let's go to the park together.
i dont really ride a skateboard, but it's fun to watch.

모의고사4

2. 친구나 가족 소개해라
yeah .. let me introduce my girlfriend.
she looks like a cute puppy.
she really likes eatting delicious food.
but she really doesn't eat much.
she knows that, too.
so when we go to a restaurant with delicious food, she is alaways a little sad.
because she cant eat much.
it's funny and cute when i see her like that.

3. 친구나 가족 만날때 뭐함 ?
well when i meet my girlfriend, i usually spend time talking or eating something.
we just hang out and grab something to eat.
i usually meet her at her house.
at first, we just talk about some funny stories,
or we lie down on the bed and rest.
after a while, when we get a bit hungry, we make some food or order something to eat.
then we eat while watching a fun TV show together.
it feels really cozy and relaxing.

4. 마지막으로 가족이나 친구 만날때 뭐했음 ?
well,, the last time was my girlfreind's birthday.
so i had to celebrate with her.
i met her and gave her a present.
like a flower.
she really wantted it.
anyway, then we went to 하이디라오 in 서울.
하이디라오 is a restaurant that serves 마라훠궈.
the food was so delicious.
she loved it, and that day was a really succeesful day.

5. 해외여행 갔던 곳 묘사
well, about 2 years ago, i went to 푸꾸옥 in vietnam.
it's a small island, but you know, it's famous for its beautiful beaches.
and the weather was hot and rainy.
i stayed at a really luxury hotel.
there was a big swimming pool with sunbeds and parasols.
the view from the pool was so amazing.
i just spent time lying down on a sunbed and just relaxing.
also, at nigjt, the island felt very safe, so i really enjoyed walking around.
overall, it was a peaceful place, and i want to go there again.


6. 해외여행 갈때 주로 뭐함 ? (overseas)
Well, you know, when most people go overseas, they usually enjoy eating delicious food and hanging out around the city.
Absolutely, me too!
but.. actually, I usually prefer going to places where I can feel the country’s traditional culture and local atmosphere.
i dont know why, i just love it, that's just me.
anyway, and also, i really love walk around the city at night.
because it makes me feel so good.
it makes me feel like one of the local people.

7. 해외여행 메모러블한 경험 말해라
well,, about 2 years ago, i went to 푸꾸옥 and stayed at a really nice hotel near the beach.
there was a big swimming pool, some good restaurants, and large rooms.
the most memorable thing was the swimming pool right next to the beach.
there were comfortable sunbeds and parasols.
and the view from the pool was really amazing.
i lay down on a sunbed, looked at the ocean and felt so releaxed.
it was one of the most peaceful moments in my life.

8. 너네 나라 식당에 대해서 말해주셈
well,, most restaurants in my country are korean food restaurants.
you know, they usually serve things like rice, soup, and side dishes.
the interesting thing about korean food restaurants is that they give you a lot of side dishes.
but, these days, not only korean restaurants, but also chinese and japanese restaurants are popping up.
these restaurants usually don't serve a lot of side dishes.
they usually give you one or two side dishes.

9. 마지막 갔던 외식 경험.
well.. the last time I ate out was my girlfreind's birthday.
i had to celebrate with her.
anyway, i gave her a present, like a flower, because she really liked it.
by the way, after that, we went to 하이디라오 in 서울.
하이디라오 is a restaurant that serves 마라훠궈.
it was delicious and my girlfreind too.
that day was a really succeesful day for us.

10. 먹을때 메모러블
well.. i used to not like chinese food, but now i like some of it.
because ..
actually 2 years ago, my girlfreind wantted to eat 마라탕 or 마라샹궈 with me.
i didnt like it, but i loved her, so i had no chice but to go.
so i went there and ate 마라샹궈.
it was my first time trying 마라샹궈.
the name of the 마라샹궈 restaurant was 하이디라오.
anyway, the taste was actually good.
I really didn’t like it before, but when I tried it, it was actually pretty good.
it was pretty memorable.

11. 은행에 와서 계좌랑 크레딧 카드 만들고 싶음, 3~4개 질문
hello, nice to meet you.
well.. i'd like to open a bank account and get a credit card.
could you help me please ?
first, what kind of accounts do you have ?
could you recommend an account that is good for me ?
oh i see, i like it.
and could you recommend a credit card, too ?

12. 식당에 카드 두고옴, 전화해서 해결책 2~3개
ring-ring.
hello, is this a restaurant ?
oh, i went there 2 hours ago.
well.. actually, im so sorry, but i think i left my credit there.
i was sitting at a small table near the window.
so could you check it for me?
oh thank you. wow you found it ?
great ! then i will be there soon.

13. 은행에서 문제있던 경험 ?
well .. maybe .. about 2 years ago, i went to a bank to open a bank account.
but i had an appointment to play computer game with my friends.
so i didn’t have much time, and i had to hurry.
but i didn’t know why, it took so much time.
there were many people there, so i had to wait for my turn.
anyway, somehow, i finished opening the account and i didn't miss my appointment,
but honestly, i was really nervous the whole time.

14. 어떤 음악 좋아함 ? 좋아하는 뮤지션은 ?
i really love alternative rock.
my favorite musician is 커트 코베인 from the band 너바나.
do you know 너바나?
they were a really legendary rock band.
but 커트코베인 took his own life because of drug addiction when he was twenty seven years old.
and i also love 텐타시온, too.
he was rapper in america.
but he was shot to death.
he was only twenty years old.
i think the musicians i love always die young.

15. 나 오케스트라에서 바이올린 연주함, 3~4개 질문 해보셈.
oh do you play the violin ? in an 오케스트라?
oh really ? its sounds great.
oh, are you pretty good at the violin ?
wow awesome.
i play the electric guitar, but it's not easy.
you too ?
especially, string instruments are hard.
it's relaly tough to hit the exact pitch.
and the violin is even harder, right?

모의고사5
2. 보통 캠핑 어디로 감 ? 니 캠프그라운드 소개좀
well.. i usually enjoy going to 천안.
because there is a really nice campground.
actually, a glamping place.
i dont have much money.
you know, camping costs a lot.
but the place i know only requires your body and some food.
there is everything you need for camping.
ah, the name of the glamping place is 아산 스파포레.
i recommend it.

3. 보통 어디로 캥핑 감 ? 누구랑 감 ? 캠핑 가서 뭐 하는거 좋아함 ?
well .. i said in my last answer.
i like going to 천안 for camping.
i usually go there with my girlfreind.
i just enjoy lying down on a chair, and relaxing.
after a while, when i get a bit hungry, i enjoy having some BBQ.
i really love BBQ, so this is my favorite part.

4. 처음 캠핑 경험 말하셈
maybe last year, around september, i went glamping with my girlfreind in 천안.
because there was a really nice glamping place there.
the interesting thing was that they had everything i needed.
everythings was ready for camping.
so i enjoyed glamping with my girlfreind without any hard work.

5. 니 집 가구 중에 제일 좋아하는거
well .. my favorite thing in my house is a computer.
because i really love playing computer games and coding.
so i bought a high-end compuer and a big monitor.
my monitor looks like a tv.
anyway, it's not really furniture, but my comuter is my favorite thing in my house.

6. 니 집 가구 어떻게 사용함 ? 뭐함 ? 왜 유용함 ?
well .. i usually use my bed and my computer.
but the bed is not interesting
let me tell you how i use my computer.
when i use my computer, i usually play computer games and do some coding.
the kind of computer games i play are Roll-Playing-Games and FPS Games.
and also, i enjoy making personal servers using programming languages.
like html, css, javascripts, and python.

7. 가구 쓰는데 문제 있던 적
well .. it's not really furniture, but one time my robot vacuum had a problem.
actually, i've used my robot vacuum for 5 years.
but about 2 years ago, it didn't charge.
so i called the robot vacuum company.
i told them, it didn't charge, i thought it had problem with the battery.
so i asked them for an A/S.
so they explained how i could get an A/S.
and i followed their instructions and got it fixed.
so it has been workig well until now.

8. 해외여행 갔던 곳 묘사
well, about 2 years ago, i went to 푸꾸옥 in vietnam.
it's a small island, but you know, it's famous for its beautiful beaches.
and the weather was hot and rainy.
i stayed at a really luxury hotel.
there was a big swimming pool with sunbeds and parasols.
the view from the pool was so amazing.
i just spent time lying down on a sunbed and just relaxing.
also, at nigjt, the island felt very safe, so i really enjoyed walking around.
overall, it was a peaceful place, and i want to go there again.

9. 해외여행 첫번째로 갔던 곳 말하셈.
well .. i went to Osaka in Japan when i was only twenty years old.
actually, you know, it was my first time going abroad.
i went to there with my friends.
anyway, i really liked the city.
because, i've always loved clothes and food.
there were really many famous clothing stores and restaurants with delicious food.
so i enjoyed shopping for clothes and eatting japanese food.

10. 메모러블한 해외 경험
well,, about 2 years ago, i went to 푸꾸옥 and stayed at a really nice hotel near the beach.
there was a big swimming pool, some good restaurants, and large rooms.
the most memorable thing was the swimming pool right next to the beach.
there were comfortable sunbeds and parasols.
and the view from the pool was really amazing.
i lay down on a sunbed, looked at the ocean and felt so releaxed.
it was one of the most peaceful moments in my life.

11. 콘서트 가기 위한 티켓 두개 사야됨, 오피스에 전화해서 3~4개 질문
ring-ring.
hi is this the office selling conert tickets?
well, i'd likt to buy two tickets.
do you have any tickets left ?
wow that's great.
how much is it ?
oh, i see, i'll buy them.

12. 니 친구랑 콘서트 가려는데 문제 생김, 너 아픔, 니 친구한테 해결책 2~3개
ring-ring.
hi, im ez-kim, my buddy.
well,, you know, we were supposed to go to the concert, but i can't go.
because i'm sick, i think i got COVID.
you know .. so i think i have to just stay home and rest.
really i'm so sorry.
but.. instead .. i can cover your loss.
i can pay you back for the ticket.
or you can go with another friend.
i can give them my ticket for free.

13. 약속이 다가오는데 캔슬해야됐던 적 있나요 ? 어떻게 해결함 ?
umm .. a cancel situation ..
well, last year.. in the summer, i was supposed to go to an EDM festival with my girlfreind.
but i couldn't go.
because i got sick. i got COVID, so i had to stay home and rest.
So I talked to her and told her I couldn’t go.
i was really sorry for her.
but, she went there alone without me.
anyway, she said it was amazing.
So, you know, it turned out okay.

14. 니 나라 지형에 대해서 설명해라.
well.. there are many mountains in my country.
you know, Korea is a very mountainous country.
so everywhere you go, you can see mountains around you.
i used to think it was normal, but when i went overseas like Tokyo in Japan, it wasn't like that.
i didn't see any mountains in Tokyo
but here, you can see them everywhere.

15. 난 캐나다에 삶, 나한테 여기 지형 3~4개 물어보셈.
wow, really ?
do you live in Canada ?
wow awesome.
i heard, there are many First Nations communities in Canada, right ?
anyway, is it cold there ?
there are many big mountains, right ?
could you tell me more about the geography there ?
and really are there many glaciers?

모의고사6

2. 니 핸드폰 기능 중에 좋아하는거
i like Telegram on my phone.
because, actually, i invest in stocks.
so, i need a lot of information.
Telegram gives me a lot of information fast.
like global news.. Trumph's comments..
That sort of thing.
if you invest in stocks, i recommend some Telegram Channels.

3. 너 핸드폰 할때 보통 전화말고 뭐함 ?
well.. i said in my last answer.
i like Telegram on my phone.
so actually, i usually use Telegram when i use my phone.
at frist, i just use Telegram for investing in stocks.
but these days, i think i just enjoy reading news.

4. 폰 쓸때 문제 있던 적
yes, i have had a problem using my phone.
well .. about 5 years ago, my phone was very slow.
it took a long time to open apps, and sometimes it even froze.
actually, i had used that phone for a long time.
so i bought a new one.

5. 공원 설명
i often go to a park near my house.
the name of the park is 센트럴 파크 in 동탄.
siriously, there's notthig speical.
just there are some places for excercise and walking.
it just a normal park.
but it's quite big, so many people come here.
i really dont like crowded places, so i'm still on the fence about changing the park i go to.

6. 공원에서 보통 뭐함 ?
well .. when i go there, i usually spend time lying down on the lawn and relaxing in the park.
or i usually go there with my girlfreind and i talk to her about some funny stories while walking.
i just go there to relax.
it's an important moment for me.

7. 공원에서 메모러블 경험
well .. about 4 years ago, i had a really hard time.
but honestly, i don't really remember the exact reason.
anyway .. so i went there to clear my mind.
and i just lay down on the lawn and looked up at the sky.
it was really blue and clear.
i don't know why, but it was just memorable for me.

8. 니 나라 기념일이나 모임 설명
well .. let me tell you about 추석.
it's one of the biggest celebrations in my country.
it started as a day to celebrate the year's harvest.
this holidays, most people in my country travel to their hometowns.
after that, they eat traditional korean food like 송편, 갈비,
while they catch up with their family.
but, for me, i'm usually busy with work, so i don't go.

9. 니 마지막 기념일이나 모임 설명
well .. i went to my hometown last 추석.
at first, i met my family.
i caught up with my family and ate some food.
at night, i met my friends.
i hadn't seen them for a long time, so i was really excited.
we drank together all night while talking about funny stories.
it was really fun.

10. 메모러블한 기념일이나 모임 설명
well .. the most memorable celebration was my girlfreind's birthday last year.
i had to celebrate with her.
so, i gave her a present, like a flower, because she really liked it.
by the way, after that, we went to 하이디라오 in 서울.
하이디라오 is a restaurant that serves 마라훠궈.
it was delicious and my girlfreind too.
that day was a really succeesful day for us.

11. 부동산에 집에 대해 3~4개 물어보셈 이사갈거임
ring-ring
hello, is this the real estate agency ?
well .. i'd like to ask you something.
i'm looking for a house to move into
do you have any houses available ?
under 500 dollars a month, please.
then .. i want a house that is located in 동탄.
ok i see. then can i go to your office now ?

12. 이사했는데 윈도우 깨져있음, 관리실에 전화해서 2~3개 솔루션
ring-ring.
hello, is this the management office ?
oh, it's the 6th room on the second floor.
well, i just moved in, but one of the windows is broken.
so, can you fix it for me now ?
oh you can fix it this afternoon ?
then i'll be wating for you.
see you soon.

13. 집에 뭐 부서진 적 있음 ?
yes.. i have had a problem before.
well .. about 2 years ago, the faucet in my house was broken.
so, i searched how to fix it on the internet.
but finally, i realized that i couldn't fix it myself.
so i called the management office.
then they came to my house and fixed it.

14. 너가 좋아하는 비치 묘사
yes i like going to the beach.
my favorite beach is 포항.
do you know 포항 ?
포항 is famous for crabs.
there are big crab statues on the beach in 포항
they look funny !
everywhere you go, there are only crabs.
it looks like a crab's heaven.

15. 나도 비치감. 나한테 3~4개 물어보셈
wow do you really like going to the beach ?
wow, me too.
where do you usually go ?
wow, what do you usually do there ?


모의고사7

2. 뱅크 질문
well .. you can find banks in my country everywhere.
and they usually look like very mordern.
they usually work from nine to six on weekdays.
on weekends, they don't work.
actually, when i was a child, i wanted to be a banker.
i don't know why .. umm .. i really don't remember the reason.

3. 뱅크가서 보통뭐함
well .. i usually don't go to the bank.
you know, these days, online banking works really well.
but .. when i need to borrow some money, sometimes i go there ..
that's pretty much it.
actually, i've hardly ever been there in my life.

4. 은행에서 문제 있던 적?
yes .. i think.. i have had a problem before.
maybe .. about 5 years ago, i needed some money.
so i went to the bank to borrow some money.
it was located in my company.
the name of the bank was 새마을금고.
anyway, i went there because i wanted to borrow some money.
i didn't bring my ID card.
so i went back home and brought my ID card.
and then i went to the bank again.
it was really annoying, but i finished everything after that.

5. 국내 여행 좋아한다며, 국내여행 좋아하는거 말하셈
my favorite place to travel is 단양, 충청도.
when i was a middle school student, i lived there.
so whenever i go there, i feel like im a kid again.
and also, a lot of my friends still live there.
so whenerver i visit, i enjoy meeting them.
its always fun to meet them.
thats why i really like it.

6. 어릴때 간 여행
when i was young, i enjoyed going on trips around 단양.
yes .. you know, 단양 is my hometown, so i knew the place really well.
and also, i didn't have much money.
so i couldn't travel far.
i usually went to the river or the mountains in 단양 with my friends.
there were many beautiful places there.
yeah, those were memorable places for me.
so i really liked 단양.

7. 메모러블 여행
maybe 2 years ago, in the summer, i went to 제부도 with my girlfriend.
i went there, and i walked with my girlfreind.
and then i saw it, the sunset.
the sunset in 제부도 was really wondeful.
i'll never forget the sunset that day.
my girlfreind said the same thing, too.
i swear it was a very memorable day for us

8. 니 집 설명좀
umm,, my house is studio apartment.
but i really like it, cause its small but cozy.
i like the cozy feeling, it makes me feel comfortable.
by the way, it looks like a mini real muisc studio.
because there's a big monitor, a tv, a high-end computer in my house.
its a combination of all my favorite things.

9. 집에서 문제 발생했던 적 ?
yes.. i have had a problem before.
well .. about 2 years ago, the faucet in my house was broken.
so, i searched how to fix it on the internet.
but finally, i realized that i couldn't fix it myself.
so i called the management office.
then they came to my house and fixed it.

10 ..
well .. i said in my last answer.
the faucet in my house was broken.
but i already told you about that, so let me tell you about something else.
actually now, another faucet in my kitchen is broken.
but it's just  a little leakage and it's a hassle.
so i have to call the management office, but i can't

11. 해외에 있는 친구에 가기로함 거기에 대해서 3~4개 질문
ring-ring.
hi, my buddy, it's ez-kim.
yeah how is it going ?
well .. you know .. i wanted yo ask you something
i'm supposed to go to osaka in japan, where you live, but i really don't know much about the place.
so can you tell me about the place ?
how's the weather there these days?
oh ok, and is there anything about the geography that i should know ?
ok i see.
see you soon.

12. 못가게됨, 설명 2~3개
ring-ring.
hi, im ez-kim, my buddy.
well,, you know, i was supposed to go to your country, but i can't go.
because i'm sick, i think i got COVID.
you know .. so i think i have to just stay home and rest.
really i'm so sorry.
but.. instead .. next time, i'll give you a present that you can't even imagine!
and next month, i have a vacation.
so i'll go at that time, okay ?

13. 해외여행 가봤음 ? 거기 지형이랑 니 나라 지형이랑 뭐가 다름 ?
yes i've been abroad.
well.. there are many mountains in my country.
you know, Korea is a very mountainous country.
so everywhere you go, you can see mountains around you.
i used to think it was normal, but when i went overseas like Tokyo in Japan, it wasn't like that.
i didn't see any mountains in Tokyo
but here, you can see them everywhere.

14. 니 좋아하는 영화 
i love classic movies.
you know, most classic movies i've watched are masterpieces.
like Scent of a Woman
do you know it ?
it's one of my favorite movies.
it's a great scene where 알파치노 dances the tango with a woman.
I really love the feeling of discovering masterpieces.
that's why i love classic movies.

15. 아바도 영화 좋아해, 3~4개 물어봐
oh ava, do you love watching movies ?
Absolutely, me too.
i really love classic movies, how about you ?
oh you love animated movies ?
hmm .. that's interesting.
then, do you watch 체인소맨 ?
the movie was released recently. you know ?
if you haven't watched it yet, i recommend it.

모의고사8

2. 명절에 대해서 얘기해라
well .. let me tell you about 추석.
it's one of the biggest celebrations in my country.
it started as a day to celebrate the year's harvest.
this holidays, most people in my country travel to their hometowns.
after that, they eat traditional korean food like 송편, 갈비,
while they catch up with their family.
but, for me, i'm usually busy with work, so i don't go.

3. 니 명절 큰거 때 뭐함 ?
well .. i said in my last answer.
추석 is one of the biggest celebrations in my country.
during 추석, most people eat traditional korean food and catch up with their family.
these days we usually don't do it, but in the past, people usually played traditional games.
like 윷놀이 or 연날리기 ..
actually i really love 연날리기, so these days, sometimes i enjoy 연날리기.

4. 메모러블 명절
well .. when i was a child, i lived at grandparent's house in 평창.
i had my mom and dad, but i don't know why i lived without them.
anyway, they usually visited my grandparent's house where i lived.
then i met them and ate delicious food.
i just only liked eatting delicious food, but it was still memorable.

8. 
i really love alternative rock.
my favorite musician is 커트 코베인 from the band 너바나.
do you know 너바나?
they were a really legendary rock band.
but 커트코베인 took his own life because of drug addiction when he was twenty seven years old.
and i also love 텐타시온, too.
he was rapper in america.
but he was shot to death.
he was only twenty years old.
i think the musicians i love always die young.

9. ㅇㅇ
well .. when i was a child, i just listend to any kind of music.
like pop-songs.
i swear, i didnt have music taste.
but about 5 years ago, i started playing electric guitar.
so i always listend to rock to practice the electric guitar.
and naturally, rock became my music taste.

10.
about 2 years ago, i went to an EDM festival in Seoul with my girlfriend.
because, my girlfriend really wanted to go there with me.
i wasn't really interested in EDM music.
i didn’t really want to go there, but i loved her, so i had no chice but to go.
but honestly, once i got there, it was really exciting.
it was my first time going to a big concert.
the powerful speakers and full sound hit my chest.
it was really an amazing experience.

11. 여행 갈 예정인데 호텔 머물러야됨, 그 호텔에 3~4개 질문.
ring-ring.
hello, is this the hotel ?
i'd like to stay at your hotel, so i'd like to ask you a few questions.
do you have any rooms available on next month?
oh how much is it per night ?
umm, do you have free Wi-Fi ?
and i heard there is a big swimming pool, so do i need bring anything there?

12. 아 뭐시기 룸 들어갔는데 더러움, 2~3개 전화해서 해결책
ring-ring.
hello, is this the front desk ?
well, it's the 6th room on the second floor.
but i have a problem.
this room is not clean.
could you please come and check it ?
and i'd like to change my room.